README.md, before:

DTU course 02456 Deep learning
=======
This repository contains the exercises and supplementary material for course [02456 deep learning](http://www.kurser.dtu.dk/02456).

Installation
------------
Please make sure that you read this section thoroughly and follow the installation guide from scratch before getting started with the exercises.

All exercises are written in Python programming language and formatted into Jupyter Notebooks. In order to run the exercises you must follow the below requirements:

**1. Install Anaconda (Python distribution)**

- Install Anaconda for Python 2.7 from https://www.continuum.io/downloads.

- The installer will ask you whether you want to add Python as a default and to your environment path. You should tick both of these options.

- Restart your terminal/command prompt for the environment variables to update.

**2. Install and upgrade theano**

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install theano

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install --upgrade https://github.com/Theano/Theano/archive/master.zip --no-deps

- If you run into problems installing Theano, please refer to: http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/index.html.

**3. Install and upgrade lasagne**

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install lasagne

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install --upgrade https://github.com/Lasagne/Lasagne/archive/master.zip --no-deps

Run the notebooks
------------
Download the repository from Github and run in a terminal/command prompt: jupyter notebook. This should start your default browser and you should be up and running. If you have issues while running the notebooks, we recommend that you use the newest version of Chrome.

Commit message:

Add note about previous versions

README.md, after:

DTU course 02456 Deep learning
=======
This repository contains the exercises and supplementary material for course [02456 deep learning](http://www.kurser.dtu.dk/02456).

## Version 

Previous versions (including `Theano` and python 2.7 implementations) are saved as git branches. 

Installation
------------
Please make sure that you read this section thoroughly and follow the installation guide from scratch before getting started with the exercises.

All exercises are written in Python programming language and formatted into Jupyter Notebooks. In order to run the exercises you must follow the below requirements:

**1. Install Anaconda (Python distribution)**

- Install Anaconda for Python 2.7 from https://www.continuum.io/downloads.

- The installer will ask you whether you want to add Python as a default and to your environment path. You should tick both of these options.

- Restart your terminal/command prompt for the environment variables to update.

**2. Install and upgrade theano**

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install theano

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install --upgrade https://github.com/Theano/Theano/archive/master.zip --no-deps

- If you run into problems installing Theano, please refer to: http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/index.html.

**3. Install and upgrade lasagne**

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install lasagne

- In a terminal/command prompt run: pip install --upgrade https://github.com/Lasagne/Lasagne/archive/master.zip --no-deps

Run the notebooks
------------
Download the repository from Github and run in a terminal/command prompt: jupyter notebook. This should start your default browser and you should be up and running. If you have issues while running the notebooks, we recommend that you use the newest version of Chrome.
